I got a message here from a patreon
supporter and this is a super
spontaneous non reverse video
needless to say unlike my other videos
are German which you might think we're
carefully scripted but anyway I've got a
message here from Emile Emile writes to
me on patreon a great topic
the problem with debating non-vegans who
are insincere from the start is that
using Socratic method only gives them
more of an opportunity to strengthen
their own illogical beliefs and to
convince others of them so this is
already interested in me because it
raises the question of what is Socratic
method I often say Socratic method is
dead it seems to be out of style like
with the internet using generation you
don't you mean okay
what is Socratic method and does anyone
in a chat forum or on YouTube or a Yuman
comic youtube comments i should ever use
it
does anyone face-to-face use it anymore
in Socratic method you are actually one
of the hard criteria prescribing method
is that you are supposed to pretend that
you don't already know what the other
person's point is what their belief is
you are supposed to feign ignorance and
now in our culture it's hard to do that
without seeming insulting the point is
to really say look I'm going to set
aside my preconceptions about you I'm
going to set aside my preconceptions
about your argument and I'm going to
really invite you to explain to me what
your argument is so there's a certain
kind of contrived ignorant so they would
mean for example that when you're
talking to a mediator and they may say
something that's very familiar they may
say something about plants having
intelligence you don't just jump in and
say well I already know what point
you're trying to make I already know
your assumptions I already know what
you're driving at where you would
actually set that aside and say okay so
that's interesting why don't you explain
to me why you think that invalidates
veganism or why you believe that or
whatever it is right so Socratic method
I feel like it's simultaneously kind of
overrated and underrated it's a
difficult virtue to practice I mean in
in Montreal unlike Toronto actually some
of the universities they're their
official policy in the department
political science is that the supposed
to use Socratic method in the classroom
which is very interested if you're a
professor and you're an expert on the
more and you have a student who's saying
things that are just completely
factually wrong with issue they no more
does it really work in the classroom I
look I'm saying this in some ways I'm a
fan of Socratic method but do you really
have the time to draw this person out
and get them to kind of demonstrate
their own ignorance because that's
that's what it boils down to is you're
you're encouraging the person to fully
describe and define aspects of their
point of view that may be ambiguous or
they may be dishonest with you about
themselves about you know through this
method and you know in a well-written
Socratic dialogue that leads to the
person realizing that they're wrong or
realizing that some that haven't thought
of etcetera etcetera now I mean the
reality is most of the Socratic
dialogues most of the actual dialogues
of Plato are not very well written most
of them are not actually very good
examples the Socratic method working if
you almost let me read the laws by Plato
terrible book horribly written and the
form of the dialogue also doesn't
doesn't really work you know so uh yeah
it is what it is
in reality could we or should we
practice Socratic method within
dialogues between between meat eaters
and vegans
I mean subscribe by the part of it is
saying I don't know why don't you tell
me you know I don't think works oh like
you nobody in your family is vegan
except you can you actually say to your
brother
I'll give you brother if your brother
says to you I don't know why you're
vegan I don't understand anything is
stupid
you can't resemble I don't know you tell
me yeah you know I don't K so what you
can pick any weather any world what are
their actual do they have reasons for
eating meat or never even guess at that
point give the point where they give you
reason it's like yes my dad says that
animals were put here by God to be eaten
this this is actually fascinating though
because your father was not a religious
man I think in truth he still isn't but
just on this topic he goes for for
religion right so I don't know I mean
true
you know the Socratic allegis to really
use Socratic method in response to that
I'm you have to say something like oh
really
what would you it would be totally
insincere totally got it productive like
like a you're going to invite them to
convince you that God wants you to eat
me you know
unless you're really unless you're both
true believers in Christianity you want
to discuss bible scripture with the
evidence of the scriptures like yeah it
would lead nowhere it doesn't it doesn't
really work ultimately I think it's
because he viewed animals as inferior to
yea manatee that surely he said sure but
of course vegans do too we wear them as
inferior we just want to treat them
decently we have different standards of
decency but yeah I've never I've never
really met it'd be good who regards
cockroaches as their equals you know but
the question is what do we do now how do
we live with cockroaches and we live
amongst cars anyway anyway so this is
the only possibly the first couple of
sentences in this email from Emil but I
think it actually is anyway so I'm going
to talk about what my method is my
method is not really Socratic method the
meantime when I mentioned Socratic
method is when I have disputes with
other vegans that's the sad fact so
there's there what to do like a twenty
minute monologue on that but all the
time I'm talking to other vegans and I
got to say to them look why don't you
restate your accusation as a question
why don't you actually question and over
my way I also asked like are you
actually interested in this thing you're
questioning because they send me a
question but the question is really just
an insult you know it's like well I
think actually the debates within
veganism that's maybe
Davina's amidst political movement and
even vegan youtubers and stuff that's
probably a situation with swearing that
it is much more much more valuable you
know so okay so the difference between
me and ask yourself ask yourself as a a
youtuber does videos are not deleted
because he asked me to lead them but I
did say to ask yourself directly I said
well why don't you try using Socratic
method instead why don't you have more
of an approach like this and I do think
that would have been way more productive
by insulting each other which
entertained the audience was more
entertaining for the audience but sure
in that instance
two different vegans with two different
approaches to veganism and I said I
think you should really set aside your
logical approach what he considers late
and instead think about you know
Socratic method other productive ways of
questions and open mind what people what
what people's real point is and what
their what's driving it so that's what
Socratic method comes up in my life but
yeah in the classroom I'm a teacher
right now I don't use Socratic method
and if I went back to Canada and we were
doing politics and philosophy in the
classroom you don't really describe now
that I'm in the classroom so
simultaneously underrated and over where
I don't use out
Socratic method when I'm when I'm
negotiating with my ex-wife or anything
you know what I mean like really in most
of your disputes and discussions debates
in life Socratic method does not have a
lot of utility but hey still worth
talking about still worth philosophizing
about to be blunt okay so he says this
method engaging with meat eaters and
Socratic method you end up forcing them
to point out the inconsistencies in
their reasoning and then arguing about
why it's wrong to others who's so sorry
this is not stated that clearly but the
point is basically results in this
rather hostile game of trying to nail
the other person for inconsistencies in
their reasoning which I have reflected
on in recent videos and more than iago
also that that can really just be very
kind we're just ratcheting up the level
of aggression and you're even driving
that aggression it is something that's
not you know it's not really worth
discussing you didn't start having this
conversation as you want to talk about
formal logic you start having this
conversation because somebody was
sincerely interested in the ethics of
veganism or the ecology of veganism
whatever the topic might be I think the
main goal so reading this this message
from Emil I think the main goal of these
logical debates is to convince the
audience not the person being debated
with and the inconsistencies and
contradictions in their moral view this
is just material for this this form of
entertainment for the audience etcetera
etc I personally would like to see more
emphasis on questions like why don't you
care and how can we make you care in
these vegan versus non vegan debates to
get a better outcome so I don't know if
I agree with that I don't think there's
any way for that to be a non-hostile
question I don't see why don't you care
I don't I don't really know if that's
ever productive break supported job I
mean I understand I understand the
deeper underlying issue but maybe so
this message ends with but maybe we
should start having a debate among
vegans first about how to better answer
these questions because they're actually
much harder answer the questions but
whether or not it's immoral to kill
animals for food right so look we're a
little bit off center here of this myth
account
um on my channel for a long long time we
have had debate about this I've had many
many videos talking about how to engage
these issues and this comes back to a
topic I think I'm going to do another
video on soon
you know the philosophy of Max Turner
Max Turner is not a very famous
philosopher I think a large part of what
we do in conversations especially
conversations with strangers not
conversations with your brother or
sister you grew up with after somebody's
known you for 20 years a large part of
what we're doing is I'm really
communicating to you Who I am and why I
care about the topic that's really
what's being communicated so whether
you're going to in frame the discussion
in terms of Socratic method or this
business of you know rigorous logical
fallacies whether you're going to
enflame it in political terms or
spiritual terms could be a more
religious discussion could be a more you
know could be a question more about
activism and effective activism in the
future the movement is on or social
justice rhetoric what have you no matter
what the context is the discussion if
you target someone who's a co-worker or
a complete stranger the mean thing
you're really communicating is this is
who I am
and this is why I care and Emile is
saying that the conversation could have
more of an emphasis on why don't you
care
I think that's inevitably what gets
revealed when you have a productive
conversation about about veganism and I
mean now is the conversation sincere and
sincere when I talk about veganism with
my own university professors so people
were my superiors you know in this
situation I think the conversation is
productive precise precise because they
are interested in Who I am
they're not interested in veganism
they're interested in Who I am and why I
live the way I do that's the hook and
that's why it's compelling when they
hear me talk about the ism now if you
don't have that if for instance you're
talking about a face-to-face
confrontation at a street demonstration
or a vigil you may be targeted someone
who both doesn't care about veganism and
doesn't care about who you are and
doesn't care about while you're living
so that's what was sort of why you're
living the way that you are living so
that's
really hard to see how there's going to
be a productive outcome from that I mean
I guess if you're engaged with complete
strangers then really all it's going to
start with is exchange of information in
the form of a dry fact and once in a
while it may be one person of a hundred
will really respond to say oh wow I
didn't know that because we're sure my
own family like my mom got past the age
of fifty she didn't where milk came from
she did know the difference in a bull
and a steer she didn't know any of the
basic facts of how you know animal and
how meat and dairy industries worked or
those kind of things so it's true maybe
one small if you're just presenting a
fact someone's going to stop and say wow
can you tell me more but I didn't
realize that's our milk spurts sure
maybe it's one in a hundred maybe it's
one of the thousands sure and then
that's that's really the remit of the
conversation between two complete
strangers but I think and again I don't
know if this is a Neil's question I
think from both most of us as vegans
with thinking at least about people who
are co-workers or acquaintances or
friends or family it's really in those
contexts that discussions about veganism
are tense and exhausting and and
what-have-you I'd like that's where
you're we're trying to approach this
yeah so look when I tell you what I
believe
I think that's weaker than just telling
you this is who I am this is why I care
this is this is the kind of person I am
there's no point I mean again this is
like the opposite of formal logic in a
lot of ways I'm not trying to separate
this out as a logical proposition or as
a fact you know I'm not pretending this
is what I believe
therefore this you must believe it also
that's you know that's what a lot of
people do in the term process vision
veganism I think it's a lot more
down-to-earth and honest and just
productive and those conversations said
look this is who I am this is why I care
this is the kind of person I am
and you can trust that too you say some
other beings are most other vegans feel
this way about it instead some people
approach it this way some people
approach it that way and then that the
person you're talking to is very likely
to respond with the majors respond with
hey I never thought of it that way
before but they may also respond just as
it's being centered they may respond by
explaining what they don't care so for
you and both the people on camera now we
cared about ecology before we care to
live again so there's a very real sense
of which for us
we could stay on a down-to-earth way if
we're talking to a meat-eater well you
know I really cared about ecology
environmentalism and I was concerned
about things like the forests and air
pollution and water pollution so for me
there was this really clear path of
connecting the dots okay why do we have
water shortages what's why and then
seeing the role in meat and dairy
industry and then these other issues and
I can contrast that to just as casually
but you know a lot of vegans they just
become vegan because they grew up with a
pet dog and they ask themselves why do I
treat my pet dog this way and I treat a
pig on a farm that well you know they
ask themselves those questions and you
could do five or six contrasts with that
the different kind of roads to veganism
but just by framing it that way it's not
this game of forcing the other person to
point out the logical inconsistency in
their reasoning which is the
paraphrasing the Mules message and it's
not even say it's not saying I'm right
and you're wrong it's really saying this
is the kind of person I am and therefore
this is how I feel and therefore this is
the moral code I live by we okay let's
personal anecdotes made us a little bit
more human we had to have dinner with my
mom right so we met up with my mom first
time I'd seen my mom and well over ten
years maybe fifteen years now I forget
how many years so I see my mom face to
face and meet in his restaurant and it's
this typical situation where she thought
the restaurant would be good for vegans
and it's not it's terrible and it's
going to be a lot of money and we're
gonna have nothing but lettuce and fruit
juice you know yeah I was willing to
deal was like a look I can sit down and
just eat lettuce and fruit juice but you
know this is I'm not going to lie to you
this is a bad choice the restaurant and
what was it among the other things my
mom said you remember she kind of
stopped her but she just said right so I
made the comment because walking around
this restaurant it's an all-you-can-eat
buffet set up and I said something like
this is a monument to dead animals there
really was there like you know our table
over here which is all you know what red
meat and then huge amount of seafood and
that kind of stuff right
right yes some of it was still flipping
around and so on yeah I yell it was just
an honest response to seeing all these
dead and dying animals you know around
you and my mom said well you have to
respect that
no what's that what the precise wording
but you have to respect that other
people who eat a different language no
she she didn't say it that clear because
when she first said it I thought she
meant she that she and the meat-eaters
respected the animals that was my first
response and I said I laughed and I said
what do you mean you know you don't you
know respect the animal are you talking
about you know they're dying over there
uh you don't want to look at fish
suffocating to death you know what I
mean and she then clarified she said no
that's not what she meant she didn't
know you have to respect you know meat
eaters choosing to eat meat anyway again
I just laughed and said you don't know
of course I don't
I keep keeping it keeping it all the way
real you know I have more respect for
people to choose to choose to use
cooking than for people who choose to
eat meat you know and cocaine you're
probably destroying your own life or
destroying your own brain but sure
knowing why would I want to respect it
so you I mean that was no we we managed
to have a totally positive conversation
um but I didn't get combative she didn't
get angry she didn't get offended or
anything you know but veganism came up
like 20 times in that conversation right
like we thought we did talk a lot about
veganism but you know I guess that's
part and parcel my own view is I'm not
making about this about a belief I'm not
making it about a fact of not making
about I'm right you're wrong I'm not
making it about my views are largely
consistent yours are inconsistent but it
is the world this is that person I am
this is what I care about and that's the
type of person you are and you you don't
care you know or you you care about you
care about other things so there
absolutely is you can be nice about it
you can smile but you can joke about it
but sure there's that that element of
moral judgment and no I'm you know I
don't pretend I mean exactly that
situation I don't pretend that I respect
my own mother when she eats meat in
front of me I don't pretend I respect
the choices of others TV ok you anything
to add is that a wrap
that's a rat Morty ah